The ClinGen ENIGMA _BRCA1_ and _BRCA2_ Variant Curation Expert Panel (VCEP) has published the definitive [rules](https://cspec.genome.network/cspec/ui/svi/affiliation/50087) for curating BRCA variants. These rules are based on the ACMG/AMP framework but further specialized for the nuances of the BRCA genes and Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer syndrome. One portion of these rules describes how and when population frequencies can translate to specific ACMG evidence for variant curation, considering the frequencies, the type and location of the variant, and technical data that describe the reliability of the observed population frequencies, such as read depth and heuristic flags. To aid in the curation of BRCA variants, by the VCEP as well as other curators, we have derived the **provisional** ACMG population frequency evidence codes for all variants in BRCA Exchange. Note that by ClinGen's procedures, all variant evidence must be reviewed by specialized biocurators as part of the variant curation process. Most of the evidence codes shown here have not yet been reviewed, therefore they are marked as provisional and should be viewed with appropriate caveats. Anyone wishing to verify a provisional evidence code can review the original data from gnomAD together with the [VCEP rules](https://cspec.genome.network/cspec/ui/svi/affiliation/50087) for population frequencies.

* #### Provisional Code ((Provisional_Evidence_Code_Popfreq))
	The provisional ACMG population frequency evidence code, as estimated according to rules of the ClinGen Variant Curation Expert Panel.
* #### Description ((Provisional_Evidence_Description_Popfreq))
	Details on how the provisional ACMG population frequency evidence code was determined.
