Rather than obtaining data through single-submitters, BRCA Exchange aggregates large scale data from database contributors, and is currently limited to the _BRCA1_ and _BRCA2_ genes. Accordingly, public databases such as [ClinVar](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/) and [LOVD](http://www.lovd.nl/3.0/home) are sources for the BRCA Exchange. Other sources include public population reference sets such as ExAC, and [pre-compiled sources of information](http://hci-exlovd.hci.utah.edu/home.php) relevant to _BRCA1_ and _BRCA2_ variant classification. 

Aggregation consolidates different kinds of data on the same variant, thus enriching _BRCA1_ and _BRCA2_ variant interpretations. Instead of searching through multiple databases separately, trying to piece together a variant's significance, a user can view most of the available BRCA data in one place. Additionally, other public databases collect general genome-wide variant data on many diverse disease genes, whereas the BRCA Exchange streamlines the sharing of specific types of data for the well-known _BRCA1_ and _BRCA2_ genes. For example, we use ExAC datasets that have TCGA data removed. BRCA Exchange also includes bioinformatic predictions and other variant annotations useful for variant classification. These specific data types help facilitate better variant interpretation.  

Importantly, two different data views are available on BRCA Exchange: the Summary View and the Detail View. In order to provide unambiguous interpretations, the Summary View displays abridged variant data. In this view, only interpretations from the ENIGMA Expert Review panel are presented, providing a more simple view of trustworthy information. However, more complete data is still available through the Detail View. The comprehensive data provided in this second view includes classic genomic statistics, such as allele frequencies, as well as data unique to _BRCA1_ and _BRCA2_, such as bioinformatic predictions of variant effect, and prior probability of pathogenicity based on bioinformatic and curated knowledge of clinically important protein functional domains. The data compiled supports variant classification using qualitative criteria, and also using the quantitative multifactorial likelihood analysis approach. This detailed data aids variant interpretation, and can be better utilized in a gene-specific data environment such as BRCA Exchange.

Ultimately, BRCA Exchange aggregates _BRCA1_ and _BRCA2_ data in one place, with the intention of streamlining interpretation for these genes’ variants.